
##### This README file serves as a comprehensive guide, offering information on both the "data-cleaning" and "data-analysis" folders within this project.
  
## Data-Cleaning

#### Official dataset source
You can find the official published results of the survey here: [2023 Stack Overflow Survey Results](https://survey.stackoverflow.co/)

#### Data Cleaning Process
In the `Data-Cleaning` folder, we cleaned the original dataset, `survey.csv`. The primary goal was to reorganize the dataset for readability, remove irrelevant columns, and handle missing data. Below are the detailed steps taken during this iteration:

#### Dropping Irrelevant Columns
After a thorough review, we identified and dropped columns that were not pertinent to our analysis or contained excessive missing data. The columns removed were: `Q120`, `CodingActivities`, `LearnCodeCoursesCert`, `YearsCode`, `YearsCodePro`, `TechList`, `BuyNewTool`, `LanguageHaveWorkedWith`, `LanguageWantToWorkWith`, `DatabaseHaveWorkedWith`, `DatabaseWantToWorkWith`, `PlatformHaveWorkedWith`, `PlatformWantToWorkWith`, `WebframeHaveWorkedWith`, `WebframeWantToWorkWith`, `MiscTechHaveWorkedWith`, `MiscTechWantToWorkWith`, `ToolsTechHaveWorkedWith`, `ToolsTechWantToWorkWith`, `NEWCollabToolsHaveWorkedWith`, `NEWCollabToolsWantToWorkWith`, `OpSysPersonal use`, `OpSysProfessional use`, `OfficeStackAsyncHaveWorkedWith`, `OfficeStackAsyncWantToWorkWith`, `OfficeStackSyncHaveWorkedWith`, `OfficeStackSyncWantToWorkWith`, `NEWSOSites`, `SOVisitFreq`, `SOAccount`, `SOPartFreq`, `SOComm`, `AIToolInterested in Using`, `AIToolCurrently Using`, `AIToolNot interested in Using`, `AINextVery different`, `AINextNeither different nor similar`, `AINextSomewhat similar`, `AINextVery similar`, `AINextSomewhat different`, `ICorPM`, `Knowledge_1`, `Knowledge_2`, `Knowledge_3`, `Knowledge_4`, `Knowledge_5`, `Knowledge_6`, `Knowledge_7`, `Knowledge_8`, `Frequency_1`, `Frequency_2`, `Frequency_3`, `TimeSearching`, `TimeAnswering`, `ProfessionalTech`, `SurveyLength`, `SurveyEase`, `ConvertedCompYearly`, `Currency`, `ResponseId`.

#### Reordering the Final Columns Used for Data Analysis for Readability
We defined a new order for the remaining columns to improve dataset readability and logical flow:
```python
new_order = ['MainBranch', 'Age', 'Employment', 'RemoteWork', 'Industry', 'Country', 'CompTotal',
             'EdLevel', 'OrgSize', 'WorkExp', 'DevType', 'TBranch', 'LearnCode', 'LearnCodeOnline', 
             'PurchaseInfluence', 'AISearchHaveWorkedWith', 'AISearchWantToWorkWith',
             'AIDevHaveWorkedWith', 'AIDevWantToWorkWith', 'AISelect', 'AISent', 'AIAcc', 'AIBen']
```
The resulting file, `df_final.csv`, is now prepared for subsequent analysis and is located in the `Data_Cleaning` folder inside the **survey.zip**.


#### Files in the survey Archive

- **df_final.csv**: This is the final cleaned dataset after the data preprocessing steps described above. It includes the relevant columns reorganized for readability.
- **README_2023.txt**: This file contains a detailed explanation and descriptions of the datasets files from stackoverflow.
- **so_survey_2023.pdf**: This PDF contains the survey instrument with all the questions asked in the 2023 Stack Overflow Developer Survey.
- **survey.csv**: This is the original dataset obtained from Stack Overflow before any cleaning or preprocessing.
- **survey_results_schema.csv**: This file provides the schema for the survey results, detailing the questions corresponding to each column name in the dataset.
 <br />

## Data_Analysis

To ensure smooth execution of code inside the **Data_Analysis** folder , follow the instructions below to import the necessary Python libraries and understand the visualizations generated by the code.

#### Essential Libraries for Running the Code

Download the following Libraries in your terminal if needed:

- `pip install pandas`
- `pip install numpy`
- `pip install seaborn`
- `pip install matplotlib`
- `pip install squarify`
- `pip install geopandas`

#### Visualizations and Analysis

The code includes various visualizations and analyses related to different aspects of developer preferences and behaviors. Here's a summary of what you can find:

- **Remote Work Preferences**: Visualizations, including pie charts and bar charts, analyze developers' preferences for remote, in-person, and hybrid work arrangements, categorized by age groups.

- **Job Preferences by Country**: Stacked bar charts categorize job preferences across different countries, organized alphabetically into three sections.

- **Work Preferences by Industry**: Pie charts illustrate work preferences within various industries, showcasing the distribution of preferences for remote, in-person, and hybrid work setups.

- **Career Paths by Educational Background**: A stacked bar chart visualizes the distribution of career paths based on developers' educational backgrounds.

- **Educational Background Distribution**: A pie chart displays the distribution of educational backgrounds among developers.

- **Influence Levels Across Organization Sizes**: Visualizations show the distribution of influence levels across different organization sizes, categorized by levels of influence.

- **Trust in AI Tools by Country**: Grouped box plots depict the distribution of trust levels in the accuracy of AI tools across different countries.

- **AI-powered Search Tool Usage by Age**: Bar charts represent the age distribution of respondents using AI-powered search tools.

- **Participation in Professional Developer Series by Age**: Grouped bar charts show opinions on participating in a professional developer series, categorized by age groups.
 <br />
  
**For detailed insights and interpretations, refer to the Finding folder.**

